[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> A former OddLods guest is very likely to
be the next mayor of New York City.
That's right. So, we interviewed Zoran
Mumdani. I think it was in early May.
And right after that, I'm not saying I'm
not going to take credit for this, but
right after that, he really started to
surge in the polls and he went on to win
the Democratic nomination.
>> I think we take very, very minor credit.
I'm sure it was a coincidence. The thing
actually that struck me after that
episode was hearing from a lot of people
who were basically like I don't like any
of his ideas at all but I still like the
guy and uh I still found him impressive
and intelligent and very uh you know
strong understanding of policy and look
I don't think his victory is
attributable to us but I did think that
was telling in the sense that a lot of
people who maybe on paper shouldn't or
wouldn't really like some of his views,
didn't seem particularly threatened by
him, which I thought was like really
interesting and may have contributed to
his sort of extraordinary margin, his
extraordinary victory.
>> I do think what's interesting about this
whole story is the tension between New
York City as this hub of capitalism,
this hub of business. You have a lot of
money here, a lot of billionaires
obviously with their own interests. And
now you have this Democratic socialist
candidate who's proposing something a
little bit new. Although some people
would say we had something more similar
to that in say the 1950s, 1960s New
York.
>> But that tension is what I find really
fascinating right now.
>> Yeah. So we have to uh we have to learn
more. I mean, again, in the run-up to
the election, like what are New York
City's business, financial elites
thinking right now? What do they think
of a possible Mandani Mery? What do they
think about New York City in general?
All of this stuff. There's a lot to
there's a lot to learn. This is going to
be a rich vein of interesting stuff for
us for a while.
>> We're going all New York local politics,
I guess. But I do think it has national
consequences. So, we should talk about
it.
>> We should definitely talk about it.
Anyway, I'm really excited. We do have
indeed the perfect guest to talk about
how the city's business elite
billionaires etc. are thinking about the
city, thinking about the election, the
possibility of Madani being the mayor.
We're going to be speaking with Kathy
Wild. She is the president and CEO of
the Partnership for New York City, which
is an organization, a business
leadership organization here. All kinds
of uh major employers. If you read any
article about Kathy in the media
described as sort of one of the ultimate
power brokers of New York City,
>> yeah, words like power brokers, power
player comes up
>> in every single one and so truly the
perfect guest. So, uh Kathy, thank you
so much for coming on OddLots.
>> Thank you for having me, Joe and Tracy.
>> Absolutely. We're really excited. Why
don't you just before we move on,
describe what the partnership for New
York City is and what you basically do
there. The partnership is business
working in the interests of the city.
It's not a chamber of commerce. It was
organized after the city's 1975 physical
crisis by David Rockefeller who was then
the chair of Chase Bank and other CEOs
of the major corporations that were not
just businesses headquartered in New
York but were real citizens of New York
and trustees of its hospitals and
museums and real contributors to the
city as philanthropists. So it is very
much a business organization that is
designed to tap the expertise and the
influence of the business community to
support New York City and to maintain it
as the city of great economic
opportunity.
>> What's the partnership's relationship
like typically with the mayoral
administration? And are there examples
where you've worked together to
effectively do something or maybe change
the path of policy? Well, absolutely.
The partnership's relationship to
government is really as an intermediary
between business and government. as I
said to provide expertise, to provide
advice, to give feedback, really to be a
resource more than an adversary of uh
with the local government in particular,
local state government and some extent
the federal government when there are
overriding issues that make a big impact
on New York that are being considered in
Washington.
>> When did Zoron come on the radar of the
people that you talked to, of the CEOs,
etc. like in the runup like was it a
month before? Was he were they thinking
about him at all? Three months before
the election. I'm sort of curious like
when it may have flickered in their
minds that the Democratic party could
nominate a socialist.
>> I would have to say that it was primary
night about 10:00.
>> Really? Yeah. Incredible to me. That's
incredible to me. Well, I I had
forewarned them that it was a
possibility, but I think Cuomo had been
a figure in their lives as Mario's son,
as attorney general, as governor
>> for 20ome years. And it was kind of a
foregone conclusion is the guy we know
who's now running for mayor is going to
be mayor.
>> Yeah.
>> And especially after Mayor Adams
announced he was not going to be in the
Democratic primary. And so they had kind
of zeroed in on accepting that it was
going to be Cuomo and really no one had
met Zoron.
>> What was the mood like on primary night?
Did everyone immediately go home and
start looking up socialism on the
internet on chat GPT?
>> Well, I I would say hysteria would be a
a good word for it. Shock was first.
Shock first. And what happened and who
is this person? And so I tried to
provide some reassurance. We had for the
past 20 years led efforts to bring
congestion pricing to New York City to
both manage traffic, but to really make
the city a more efficient place. Excess
traffic congestion was costing the city
$20 billion a year with lost time, lost
productivity. And what makes New York a
great place to work is the productive
workforce. So we'd been an advocate of
congestion pricing. And I had actually
met Zoron in that context at the writers
alliance which is a group of subway
riders advocates and had found him to be
a very smart interesting young man. So I
had known him and then he reached out to
me last September and said I'd like to
talk to you about my mayoral prospects
when he was polling at 1%. And so I uh
met him for coffee at the LPQ at 85
Broad and we had a conversation and I
found him to be smart and I took him
seriously from then on.
>> H I mean I'm impressed from his
perspective that that early on he wanted
to sort of build that connection or make
that connection with you. Before you
talk more about him, a friend of mine
described you as a therapist to the New
York City billionaires. They were
hysterical on or they're experiencing
hysteria on primary night. Did you feel
like that was your role in that night?
Did you feel like a therapist to the
members of the partnership
>> to provide reassurance to the business
community? I mean, number one, to remind
them that many of the things they were
most worried about from a so Democratic
socialist candidate were things that he
has absolutely no capacity to execute
on. So, for example, raising corporate
and income taxes is not something that
the city or the mayor can do. Uh, free
buses is not something the mayor can do.
and figuring out where you make up that
800 million in um in revenues. So, that
was number one, reassuring them that we
have a moderate governor who's watching
out for business interests, who says
she's not going to further raise taxes
in New York, which is the highest tax
city in the country and in most cases
the world for both individual income tax
and corporate tax. So that was number
one, providing reassurance that
>> as mayor he would have an agenda, but
there are a lot of checks and balances
to work through in New York and it's not
a unilateral post. Now that was more
difficult with the real estate community
because their concerns having to do with
land use proceedings and approvals and
uh construction permits etc. that the
mayor does control
>> basically a huge amount of control over
that process. That is the one thing
that's local and real estate taxes uh
where the mayor has significant
influence. So it was more difficult with
members of the real estate community who
after the primary quickly pivoted to
remembering what a good friend Mayor
Adams was.
So, I want to talk more about the
concerns of the business community,
obviously. But before we do, I can't
resist asking, when you first met Zoran
over coffee, what advice did you give
him? What did you actually say to him
about a mayoral run? Number one, I said
that you can't lead New York City unless
you have a constructive relationship
with the Jewish community because that
was the most obvious source of concern
that he seemed not able to address that
worried me a lot. Number two, that
the solution to affordability
is not for government, local government
to spend more money. That the money that
local government spends has to be
accounted for. That you need to raise
taxes to support it. And ultimately,
that just ups the cost of living and the
cost of doing business in New York. And
that all ends up getting passed along to
consumers. So the affordability
question, which he was absolutely right
to emphasize and emphasize from the
beginning, that we've got to make New
York more affordable to not just poor
people, to the middle class, to uh those
people who rent an apartment. And now
the average rents almost $4,000 a month.
This is the big concern of employers.
And I said this is their number one
concern. How do we keep and retain young
talent if they can't afford to rent an
apartment in New York City? Big
frustration. So, that was that was kind
of the conversation that we had and he
was open to that conversation and and
interested in learning. I mean, he
impressed me right away as somebody who
is interested in learning more, but who
has um has very strong opinions and is
very committed. And I mean he's 33 years
old and the world is his oyster.
>> Yeah. You mentioned the importance of
relations with the Jewish community. And
I saw I watched that I didn't watch the
whole debate, but I did watch the last
debate and there was that question about
which country are you going to visit
first? And every candidate Bud Sauron
said he was going to they were going to
visit Israel. He said he wasn't thinking
about was going to visit. Can you
explain from the perspective of the
business leaders, New York City, why do
they perceive that good relations with
Israel is such an important aspect of
the job of
>> Yeah. Why does the mayor of New York
have to have a foreign policy?
>> Well, their fear is that he has a
foreign policy. I I don't think anybody
thinks the mayor of New York has to have
a foreign policy, but he has a record of
speaking out on issues that impact the
Jewish community about Israel that
they're very concerned about. And so
their concern is not having New York
City has uh has a long history of values
that are very strong on supporting a
diversity of people are very tolerant of
various religious beliefs and a long
history with Israel. I mean when Cornell
Technon partnered on uh Technneon's the
university in Israel that really led the
startup nation movement in Israel and
did so much to propel their economy and
they were selected under the Bloomberg
administration to establish a firstass
engineering school in New York on
Roosevelt Island which has been very
successful and is producing a great
number of PhDs. And so at the time that
they came in, Technon came in, they told
me how they had been funded originally.
It was New York Jewish philanthropists
that funded that effort. So there's this
long-term relationship. And obviously we
have many people in New York who are
family of Holocaust victims and
survivors and for whom the fact of a
Jewish homeland a safe space for Jews
around the world is of top area of
importance.
I think that that that they are very
concerned that the mayor of New York
City respect and understand the
importance of Israel and our long-term
relationship. And that that worries them
a lot. And that's an issue that I think
he has yet to resolve. I think it's
difficult because
he has strong support in the young
Jewish community
>> and so I'm sure he feels that he's got a
lot of people who are with him on the
issues of protecting the rights of the
Palestinians and concerns about that.
So, it's um this is an area again where
the fact that he ran a campaign
and had built relationships
that are a piece of New York City.
>> Uh he expanded the electorate to folks
who have not participated, but he really
did not
develop much of a relationship with the
historic electorate. he was running
against the Democratic establishment,
not with it. And so the communities
where much of the Jewish population is
concentrated were not communities he was
necessarily reaching out to except for
the young people and the social media
crowd. And that's not the people who are
most concerned.
[Music]
So on the topic of the campaign, I mean
this was one of the really surprising
things of him winning. He had this sort
of grassroots campaign which was very
much focused on social media. Lots of
merchandise with really interesting
designs. I've seen the hot girls for
Zoran t-shirts, people wearing those
around town, usually young women, as you
mentioned. And I'm curious, are any of
the people you're speaking to perhaps
thinking differently about campaign
donations going forward if they donated
billions of dollars for Cuomo and Zoran?
What?
>> Well, not billions, but millions.
>> Okay. Um,
>> yes. Yes.
I would say that
for the most part what I'm hearing is
that people feel that they
contributed
to Cuomo and that they don't feel they
got a very good campaign out of it. They
want to meet Zoran
and I think they're making there are
many particularly in the real estate
community that are stepping up to
transfer whatever donations they were
making to Cromo to Eric Adams, if you
will, the somebody that they know they
can do business with and who has been
supportive of tremendously positive
growth in the city from the uh nater of
the pandemic and what where our economy
was, where our real estate situation.
Um, Eric Adams, it should not be ignored
that he has, his administration has led
reszoning efforts and really changed the
zoning code for the first time since
1961. So, he's made a tremendous
investment in trying to begin the
process of making it easier and less
expensive to develop housing in the city
and supported economic growth overall.
So there was concern. I mean, obviously
he's the first mayor that's been
indicted and when he dropped out of the
Democratic primary, I think that
solidified most of the money going to
Cuomo, but Eric is back in the general
and in in uh in good form.
>> I noticed you said something in I think
your first answer that the um the
business elite had accepted Kuomo as who
was going to be the nominee. that
accepted it does not sound the same as
enthusiastically support. I hear that as
sort of resigned. Yeah. Okay.
>> Status quo.
>> Yeah. And so I'm curious like
>> come on, you have to laugh at that. Good
lines, right? Status. That's a good one
actually. Thank you. Thank you.
>> That was good. But how did they feel
actually about Cuomo and also like I
know there are some question. It's still
unclear whether he's going to run
actively in November, but if they do
coales around someone, does it
definitely seem like it's going to be
Adams?
>> So far, I think yes, I think it's going
to be Adams. If if and again, it is um
the real estate community that's most
concerned. You understand that the
financial industry in New York basically
is prohibited by federal regulation SEC
and FINRA and other regulation from
contributing to state and local
candidates beyond a nominal amount of a
few hundred dollars. So they are not for
the most part money players in state and
local elections which has really
disadvantaged New York's business
community which represents like 40% of
our tax base who can't participate in
supporting candidates of their choice.
>> Well, they can knock on doors like the
Zoron volunteers did. They just can't
donate gobs of money
>> and that would be great but not
happening. Okay. Um it's uh most of them
are beyond the doornocking age.
>> Sure.
>> But your question about Cuomo, Cuomo was
attorney general during the financial
crisis and was not very friendly toward
the financial industry and did not
develop relationships that were very
positive during his tenure as attorney
general with the business community. So,
and that was his job to be an enforcer.
And during his term as governor, he came
in with a very strong agenda to try and
get state spending under control and get
taxes under control. But having made
some some real progress there on
Medicaid reform and pension reform as
the political winds changed. Uh there
wasn't that same relationship with the
business community. So with the
exception of real estate where he was
very progrowth investing in
infrastructure supporting real estate
development. So I would say that he had
relative enthusiasm in the real estate
community but not broadly based in the
business community.
>> So on this note, you've emphasized a
number of times that a lot of business
leaders obviously want to talk to Zoran.
They want to get in the room with him.
And you are organizing, I believe,
discussions between the business
community and the mayoral candidate, I
think, next week. We're recording this
on, let's see, July 9th.
How do you decide who gets to be in the
room with Zoran? Well, the first meeting
we're doing, and I set this up with
Zoran, he called me right after the
election and and said he wanted to
establish those relationships. And I
said, "Well, let's" So, we set up a
meeting with the CEOs of the partnership
that's on Tuesday. And so, there'll be
some will join virtually, but it's going
to be mostly an in-person
150 maybe CEOs of major companies, major
employers in the city who have never met
him. And we'll be for the first time
getting the opportunity. That's going to
be a conversation with our co-chairs Rob
Spire of Tishman Spire and Dr. Albert
Burla of Fizer. And so they'll be having
a conversation with Sauron and then
we'll have some Q&A with our members.
And so that's that's number one. And
then um
>> you'll come back next week, right? And
we'll do a follow-up to this episode and
you just tell us.
>> It'll be interesting. Yes, I'm I'm
looking forward I'm looking forward to
that conversation. But I think again
it's an introduction and I have full
confidence as you know having met him.
Yeah,
>> Zoran is pretty good at presenting
himself and very fast in terms of his
thoughtful responses on issues. So I'm
looking forward to that because it'll
save me a lot of time reassuring him
that he's not the devil. He's okay. And
then on Wednesday, Kevin Ryan, who is
kind of the father of Silicon Alley, Ali
Corp is the name of his corporation and
has has a prolific history of creating
tech companies in New York. Kevin is
going to moderate a conversation with
him which will be heavily tech focused,
more entrepreneurs than corporate
finance types. So that'll be on
Wednesday. And then I should add that on
Thursday we'll be doing breakfast with
Mayor Eric Adams.
>> Okay,
>> and speaking to him about his path
forward. And as I said, there's been a
lot of support for the policies that
Eric Adams has. He started out as mayor.
I had the same conversation with Eric.
I'm a Brooklyn person, so I've known
Eric for many years and most recently in
his capacity as Brooklyn burough
president. But when we started out, he
didn't know anybody in the New York
business community either. But he
introduced himself as saying, "My number
one priority is public safety. And my
number two priority is a thriving
economy, and I'm with you." And having
lived through eight years of Bill
Delasio as mayor, who had nothing to do
or to say to them except, "You're awful
people." And as Jamie Diamond famously
said, "For eight years, I never got a
call from Bill Delasio when he was mayor
and have never have never had a
conversation with him." So Eric
immediately reversed the Delasio big
business is bad for New York and Eric
said, "I want wealthy people in New
York. I want big business in New York."
So I don't expect that from Zoran uh
next week. I I don't I think that that
he's not going to have the same
unbridled enthusiasm for billionaires,
but I do expect that he will come across
as a responsible person who's thinking
seriously and is open to learning, which
is most important to listening and
learning. And I think that that that the
number one concern is is this a dogmatic
ideological person who is just going to
is is going to be um not interested in
what we can contribute to the city or
what employers contribute.
>> You mentioned Kevin Ryan. I used to work
for Business Insider which one of the
Alley Corp companies. So I'm a
beneficiary of his New York City
investments. You know, when the night of
the primary, I got some random messages
online. They're like, "Are you going to
leave New York City? I'm never going to
leave New York City." Like, it's the
best city in the world, obviously. But,
you know, people do leave and in 2021
and 2022, people pretended to think that
Miami was a better option for them. I
think a bunch of them came back or they
spent just the, you know, minimum amount
of time there so they could, you know,
qualify for their local taxes, etc. In
your view or in the view of the
employers of New York City, what are the
threats, the substantive threats that
would say, okay, this would meaningfully
change the desiraability of doing
business in this town?
>> Number one is public safety and that's
again they've appreciated particularly
under Commissioner Tish and originally
under Commissioner uh Kan Su, they have
appreciated that the Adams
administration has focused on public
safety and that we're
>> and that's more important than things
like taxes for them. Yes, absolutely.
Because the whole basis of business
being here is the talent pool. And if
talent doesn't want to be here, if
they're scared to leave be in New York
City, if they're worried to go on the
subway because they might get mugged or
pushed in front of a train, that's the
worst thing that could happen to New
York. So, and and importantly, Zoran has
acknowledged that keeping New York a
destination for talent is a priority for
him. So, I think that message is is very
important. So that that public safety
number one and then as I said before
affordable housing and affordability
that again allows talent to be here and
doesn't have a premium cost. I mean
already in most sectors New York City
salaries have a 20% premium at least
over if you're going to locate in Texas
or Florida whatever. when it gets higher
than that, it becomes hard to explain to
shareholders why you're here and why
you're creating jobs here. So that's the
that's the other consideration. So it's
it's really having a safe city and
having an affordable city are the top
criteria and at least in terms of having
an affordable city, they've got common
cause with uh Zoran's campaign.
>> This is what I was going to ask you. Are
there any areas of I guess overlap or
agreement between Zoran's agenda and the
concerns or the desires of the business
community?
>> Yeah, absolutely. As I mentioned, one of
the big questions that'll come up next
week, probably the first question
that'll come up is what is your
commitment to public safety? You know,
symbolically, would you keep Jesse Tish
as police commissioner? and she
certainly won't stay if he's going to
defund the police because she's looking
for more officers, more resources to
really make sure that we stay the safest
city in America and the world hopefully.
So that'll be public safety. And then on
affordability, it'll be hoping that they
can communicate that just having city
government increase its budget does not
improve affordability. We've got to be
more creative than that.
[Music]
What do you see as the main constraints
to affordability? What do you from your
just from your perspective, how many
years did they were they debating about
putting up some houses at the Elizabeth
Street Garden? like these the process
take forever, but like I know that's
like the most hot button topic in the
world, but just broadly, what do you
perceive as the main constraint towards
making rent cheaper in New York City?
>> 30% of rent is real estate taxes in rent
regulated buildings. So, government
spending that depends on real estate
taxes, that's where the majority of the
city revenues come from, is driving high
rents. Uh it's not that developers in
these older rent regulated buildings are
making a huge profit. It's that their
costs have gone up. Their water bills
etc. All these are on water and sewer.
These are under control of the city. So
there are things government can do very
quickly to reduce costs as an example.
>> What about just sheer volume of housing
production? Because right in the end
like most people okay rent is very
expensive. It's also scarce and that
contributes to the fact that rent prices
go up and that landlords can yeah
collect a lot of rent. Do you think
there are meaningful levers that could
be pulled to rapidly increase the pace
in which we build whether it's
affordable housing or market rate
housing etc. Like what would you
identify?
>> Absolutely. Again, it's reducing
government bureaucracy. Right now I'm on
the city charter revision commission
which is going to put resolutions before
the public I believe in November to look
at how we can cut down on the time and
cost associated with development
approvals especially for smaller
projects. The other thing I want to
mention that affects the cost of
construction
very much but also it affects all other
costs is the cost of litigation
passed along to consumers through high
insurance costs. We have the highest
claims and settlements. We have the
highest degree of litigation in the
country. It's almost impossible to get
anything through the legislature that
doesn't include a private right of
action. The trial lawyers are the
strongest lobby in Albany. also have a
lot of influence within the city and we
have to get down our litigation costs.
Our insurance costs are substantially
higher than anywhere else in the
country. Our car insurance costs are 49%
higher than the average in the country.
Our health insurance costs are 12%
higher. These are all costs that we
could absolutely contain and control.
And the city, which is basically
self-insured, ends up paying this out of
pocket. So they pay billions of dollars
a year in medical malpractice in other
>> fund a lot of free buses
>> that would fund a lot of free buses.
>> Aren't the higher litigation costs
aren't they just a reflection of I guess
the higher cost of living and materials
maybe and things like that
>> they're they're a reflection of a system
where our jury awards are much higher
than any place else. They call them
nuclear awards. Uh no it's all because
of laws. We have one law on the books in
Albany. It's part of the labor law. It
was passed a hundred years ago and it
was passed before we had workers
compensation and other protections for
construction workers. If you have a
gravity related injury and many of these
are staged, that one law can add 5 to 7%
to the cost of construction just that
one law. And so when we say why why does
it cost a million dollars to produce a
two-bedroom rental apartment in New York
to build it? When you look at it, you'll
see that a big chunk of that is the
result of the litigation insurance costs
and the time that it takes to get
anything done, the carrying costs for
the time.
>> I want to ask a sort of social question
given your role as therapist to uh the
wealthy, but I get a sense sometimes
that there is a feeling out there among
maybe a lot of people that billionaires
are less charitable than they once were.
certainly going back to earlier in the
century perhaps and I think back to like
Rockefeller who you know or knew um and
worked with and him bailing out the city
in the 1970s like that was an act where
he decided I am going to spend money in
order to save New York and contribute to
New York's future. Is that an accurate
portrayal of billionaires nowadays? Are
they less engaged in overall society?
Well,
in many cases, the family wealth, like
in the Rockefeller family, has
diversified. So, you don't have one
person who is as wealthy. It's spread
out. But the commitment to New York, to
its hospitals, its museums, its
universities, its institutions. We have
by far the most philanthropic city in
the world. I get visitors from all over
the world, from Paris, from London, from
LA, from San Francisco, all of whom say,
"How does New York create a culture
which is so giving, which is so
generous?" And the Rockefellers and the
Aers and many of the families that, you
know, the key families of New York did
contribute to this. But then you saw the
tributes to Leonard Lauder who died a
few weeks ago. They were all for from
every nonprofit institution. The
generosity of New Yorkers is huge. The
label billionaire
is often attached to
self-promoters who are promoting
themselves as billionaires. I would
distinguish that. None of the people
that I'm talking about want to be known
or proclaim themselves or position
themselves as billionaires.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. That definitely resonates. I want
to go back to something. You know, you
mentioned the generational divide among
New York City's Jewish community and the
idea that the under 40 crowd may have a
very different perception of the
relationship that New York City should
have about the state of Israel or state
of Israel period. And you also mentioned
that, you know, for many of the people
that you work with, it only dawned on
them that a socialist could be the uh
Democratic nominee at 10 p.m. on
election night, which makes me wonder
like how plugged they are in because
certainly in at least the month prior to
the election, it became very obvious to
me that this was like a very real
possibility that he could win. Like is
there a persistent problem of sort of
like generational awareness? And I'm
thinking also about affordability and
housing and some of these other issues
where I don't want to say like out of
touch, but I guess out of touch between
the business elites, the CEOs, etc., and
what's on the mind of younger voters,
period, across a range of issues.
>> I think that's a a very fair comment.
Most of the mature business world is not
living on social media.
Well, they're not they're not plugged
into that world. And that's that's a
great contributor to the generational
divide. I mean, I still read a paper,
>> a real paper, and that's that's a
differentiator.
And the other thing is that the
globalization of the economy has meant I
mean New York is a center of world
industry leadership
and they are focused and spending their
life traveling all over the world. So
the fact that we're a headquarters city
in all these diverse sectors in fashion,
in media, in means that the focus is
global rather than local.
Politically especially the focus is
Washington, which is where most of the
regulatory activity is coming from, not
local. City and state are sidelines
compared. So, it's just the nature of
our changing economy over the last 50
years, which has gone from being a local
50 years ago industrial economy to being
a service economy to today being a
global digital economy. And all of that
means that the attention of business
leadership has been largely externally
focused on the world business world
markets and on Washington
that just there's only so many hours in
a day. Mhm.
>> I mean, what we try and do at the
partnership is synthesize for those
global leaders what's happening locally
and who's who and what's what. That's
what we're doing with regard to the
mayoral election now. It's trying to
bring them into the conversation
at a point where they're taking it
seriously and they have to prioritize
it. But these are these are people who
are running global businesses and that's
the that's what's changed. It's not
anything else but the focus of attention
has to be global and well I I would just
mention because we sit here in Bloomberg
podcast world that u Mike Bloomberg
changed that when he was mayor he
brought the attention of our global
leaders back to New York which was
extremely useful. I started as CEO of
the partnership in uh 2000, right before
2001, before Mike was elected. And I
took advantage of re-engaging you. If
you went to a cocktail party in New York
that Mike Bloomberg is going to be at,
you had to talk New York.
And he was a thought leader. He was the
leading philanthropist. When people ask
me who replaced David Rockefeller as the
leading philanthropist in the city was
Mike Bloomberg.
Simple.
>> I have to do the disclaimer here which
is of course Bloomberg News. Bloomberg
Media is part of Bloomberg LP which is
owned by Mike Bloomberg. So
>> we didn't tell our guest to describe our
boss as the uh the new David
Rockefeller.
>> No, we did not. Um I I just have one
>> This isn't the first time I've said it.
>> Okay. Okay. All right. I just have one
more question which is have you noticed
or seen at all I guess moments of
introspection among the business
community this idea that like oh maybe
we missed something about Zoran maybe we
missed why he's resonating so much in
the city maybe we should start doing
something different maybe we need to you
know actually build more housing or
lower rents or whatever or are they
still committed very much to uh this not
the status quo but the Eric Adams status
quo and they want him to win.
>> Again, distinguishing between the real
estate community that sees the potential
of an existential threat to private
development. Putting that aside in terms
of the general business community, I
think your point that they're feeling a
little out of touch with uh what's been
happening on the ground and they want to
plug in. They are really interested. I
mean, we've had tremendous interest in
meeting Zoron,
speaking with him. He's made calls to
some businesses.
>> Yeah. What do they say after like the
after those phone calls? Because the
they've, you know, you mentioned the
meetings that are coming up, but some
have already they've already chatted.
Like what is what what is their
response?
>> Their response is that he is um you
know, they said he's the politician of a
generation. I mean, he's a generational
figure. They're they're impressed.
>> Um, after a 10-minute phone call with
him because he is he's a very effective
communicator
and he listens. And, you know, business
leaders like to be listened to.
>> Kathy Wild, that was fantastic. So glad
we made this happen. And uh, like I
said, maybe we'll maybe we'll have you
back at some point or would love to have
you back on at some point.
>> Thank you. Nice to be here.
[Music]
>> Tracy, I really like that conversation.
There was a lot to pull from. This idea,
there are a number of things. this idea
that the CEOs who are headquartered here
in New York City just by the nature of
the changing economy are less New York
City focused themselves to me is like
something I hadn't really thought about
but makes a lot of sense to me.
>> Yeah, I thought that was really
interesting. The other interesting point
that Kathy brought up was, I guess, the
divergence between, you know, Wall
Street CEOs and perhaps other businesses
versus real estate, which really seems
to be freaking out about the prospects
of a Mumani mayorship.
>> Yeah. No, that's really interesting.
This idea that it's uh not monolithic. I
said it in the intro or I said it early
on. You know, I think a lot of people
who are on paper, they're like, "Oh, you
look down the list of his policies,
maybe not something that they're too
into, but the fact that they don't like
find him to be threatening or they don't
find him to be repellent in some way."
And so it's striking that already he's
having these conversations. Also like it
is just striking to me that you know
people see him as you know potentially
this extremely ideological person and
yet from the very beginning of his
campaign in September was reaching out
to Kathy and like making these
connection. I mean it's a it was a
really savvy campaign. Well, the other
thing on that note, first of all, I'm
really fascinated to see whether or not
this starts to change campaign finance
and the way it works because again,
Quuomo had all the money and terrible
ROI.
>> Yeah, exactly. And the other thing I'm
really interested in is okay, the
business community, Kathy was saying one
of their primary concerns is attracting
talent into the city.
>> Well, you know, that talent presumably a
lot of it is young. There's probably a
large portion in there that is, you
know, of a progressive event. Yeah. And
so a candidate like Zoran might appeal
to them and actually bring more people
into the city. So
>> it's also interesting. I mean the safety
and crime thing is the number one thing,
right, that would cause people to leave
because
>> and again there's a lot more talk about
leaving New York City than there is
actually leaving New York City. And it
is true that I think a lot of those
people who thought they were going to
decamp to Miami during the post-pandemic
period have come back for obvious uh for
obvious reasons. But it's interesting
that it's not even like any of the
economic stuff. It's not the uh
socialism stuff. It's just the basic
safety stuff. And there is I know
there's a lot of the question about
whether Mani if he wins will keep the
police commissioner. The crime stats
have improved quite a bit in recent
years. the idea that this is like the
really big thing more than you know the
rent freeze or taxes or anything else I
think is just going to be an interesting
um executive question for uh Mumani.
>> Lots of interesting questions thrown up
by this whole election. Shall we leave
it there for now?
>> Sure. Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the
OddLotss podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracee Alaway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman
Dashelobbennet at Dashbot and Kalebrooks
at Kalebrooks. For more OddLots content,
go to bloomberg.com/odlotss
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes and you can chat about
all of these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we do local New York politics that
has national relevance, then please
leave us a positive review on your
favorite podcast platform. And remember,
if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcast and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
[Music]